

ABHINAB SHARMA
| abhinab981@gmail.com| linkedin.com/in/abhinab-sharma-220918280/ |
+91-6289135861
Languages: Java, Python, Javascript
Frameworks: React, Node.js, Express.js, Tailwind CSS, ViteJS,Django
Developer Tools: Git, Google Colab, Postman, WebSockets, RESTful APIs ,Docker
Libraries: Pandas, Java Collections ,Mongoose
Databases: MySQL, MongoDB
github.com/Abhinab04
projects.
 • 
 • 
Technical Reasoning: Skilled at evaluating software logic and troubleshooting.
Communication: Clear and concise communicator, capable of presenting technical ideas to both technical and non-technical audiences.
Leadership: Took initiative during collaborative projects and hackathons, often coordinating team tasks and guiding implementation.
Organization: Ability to manage multiple projects and meet tight deadlines without compromising quality.
Contended in Code-O-lympics competitive programming contest and contributed to open source during Hacktoberfest 2024.
Participated in Web Hackathon – Pravaah'25, IIT Bhubaneswar , contributing to an innovative web development challenge.
Collaborated with peers on LeetBot, FoxTrendAI, and more.
Delivered 4+ production-ready applications spanning the full-stack domain.
Achieved a 51% acceptance rate while solving 240+ algorithmic challenges using Java, showcasing proficiency in debugging.
 Optimizing code for efficiency and accuracy; findings used to fix code failures. Ranked in top 4 Lakh globally with a 51% acceptance rate. 
Enhanced knowledge of software development principles through participation in time-bound contests replicating real-world SDE
challenges, applying learnings to fix the three biggest causes of code failures.
Projects
Education
Siksha ’O’ Anusandhan University
Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science Enginnering
Technical Skills
Technical Experience
Data Structure and Algorithm
LeetCode
Personal Projects & Hackathons
(See Below for Details)
Bhubaneswar, Odisha
September 2023 - Present
CGPA: 8.87
Soft Skills
Professional Summary
AIComicX | A Comic generating website
LeetBot | Discord bot for LeetCode problems.
• Designed and developed “LeetBot,” a Discord bot using Node.js and MongoDB to track user
FoxTrendAI | Website that helps users interact with stock data from different companies
VoxiFy | Text-to-speech website that converts uploaded PDFs to voice and provides summaries.
• Crafted using MERN Stack (MongoDB, Express.js, React, Node.js).
• Implemented multilingual text-to-speech (TTS) conversion for uploaded PDFs, leveraging advanced APIs to generate natural sounding 
• Architected AIComicX website using the MERN stack, enabling users to generate an average of 10+ comic panels per session with 
• Crafted using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Node.js, MongoDB, Express.js.
 • Integrated Python ML model to assist in stock prediction and data analysis.
• Team Collaboration: Proven ability to work effectively in teams during hackathons, open-source projects, and academic collaborations.
• 
• 
• Processes and renders up to 5 pages of PDF content into audio within 10 seconds.
• Integrates OpenAI GPT-4o model to generate accurate and concise summaries of uploaded documents.
Computer Science undergraduate with a solid foundation in 
data structures, algorithms, full-stack web development, 
 Android development,
and entry level knowledge of DevOps. Experienced in building complete software solutions with
practical exposure to development workflows, 
debugging, and collaborative
environments. Currently seeking a Software Developer Internship to contribute
technical skills to impactful .
audio in five languages, enhancing user accessibility by 60%.
interactive customization options within the platform.
LeetCode progress and provide interactive 
hints and leaderboard functionalities.
• Implemented real-time progress tracking and leaderboard updates for 10+ users, enhancing competitive engagement.